# PrivateKey_Sharding_Recovery
Increases wallet/account storage security! PrivateKey Disaster recovery. Covers loss of private key and reduces central point of failure ie (theft, loss of private key).

***SOME GOOD EXAMPLES WITH UI'S TO REFERENCE
Best one to copy
https://github.com/fresswolf/shamirgenerator .. also cloned to my repo..

Second best one.
https://mrdomino.github.io/lockbox/
https://github.com/mrdomino/lockbox

^^ Although ideally we do not want people entering their private key manually to a text box
If we can implement a scanner of private key on googledrive or someother specified location that would be great

This application can be used for all cryptocurrency private keys, not only ethereum based tokens.

Steps.
1. Pass in your raw Ethereum PrivateKey to ethPrivKeyShard.js
2. Copy and distribute n amount of shards generated by algorithm to your selected guardian devices or people.
3. Enter required threshold recovery shards into ethPrivKeyRecovery.js
4. Successfully recover your lost Private Key! 

If you clone this repository, just run npm install to get all the required library packages.

The current paradigm has people printing or writing their private key and storing it in one location, usually on their hard drive or written on a piece of paper and stashed away in their bedroom clothes drawers.
This leaves people vulnerable if their bedroom is raided or they lose their laptop device that has their private key.

Background.
Our solution will use a decade's old proven algorithm called Shamir's Secret Sharing.

Similar to methods used for nuclear code storage.
Private key security is a prime topic for all cryptocurrency holders.

Loss of a private key can mean your crypto funds are locked away for ever or even worse, can be stolen by malicious third parties.

Sharding, or splitting a private key into parts via the Secret Sharing algorithm, means an attacker would have a harder time to acquire many parts of the divided private key to steal funds from the account under attack.

***This quixxi application will - Protect permanent loss of private key in catastrophic scenarios and increase general private key security.

Libraries required:

Secrets.js
Crypto.js